h1. love-loader

This is an utility lib for "LÖVE":http://love2d.org that loads resources (images, sounds) from the hard disk on a separate thread.

This allows for "doing stuff" while resources are being loaded; for example, playing an animation. The fact that the blocking calls happen in a separate thread ensures that the animation is fluid, without blocking calls dropping the framerate.

Version 1.0.0 of this lib only works with LÖVE 0.7.x . LÖVE 0.8.x has backwards-incompatible changes on the way threads and fonts are managed.

h1. Examples

<pre>
local loader = require 'love-loader'

local images = {}
local sounds = {}

local finishedLoading = false

function love.load()
  loader.newImage(  images, 'rabbit', 'path/to/rabbit.png')
  loader.newSource( sounds, 'iiiik',  'path/to/iiik.ogg')
  loader.newSource( sounds, 'music',  'path/to/music.ogg', 'stream')

  loader.start(function()
    finishedLoading = true
  end)
end

function love.update(dt)
  if not finishedLoading then
    loader.update() -- You must do this on each iteration until all resources are loaded
  end
end

function love.draw()
  if finishedLoading then
    -- media contains the images and sounds. You can use them here safely now.
    love.graphics.draw(images.rabbit, 100, 200)
  else -- not finishedLoading
    local percent = 0
    if loader.resourceCount ~= 0 then percent = loader.loadedCount / loader.resourceCount end
    love.graphics.print(("Loading .. %d%%"):format(percent*100), 100, 100)
  end
end
</pre>

h1. Interface

* @loader.newImage(holder, key, path)@. Adds a new image to the list of images to load.
* @loader.newSource(holder, key, path, sourceType)@. Adds a new source to the list of images to load.
* @loader.start(finishCallback, loadedCallback)@. Starts doing the loading on a separate thread. When it finishes, it invokes @finishCallback@ with no parameters. Every time it loads a new resource, it invokes @loadedCallback@. @finishedCallback@ admits no parameters, and @loadedCallback@'s signature is @function(kind, holder, key)@. @kind@ is a string ("image", "source" or "stream"). Neither @loadedCallback@ or @finishedCallback@ are mandatory.
* @loader.loadedCount@ integer returning the number of resources loaded. When @loader.start@ gets invoked, it's 0.
* @loader.resourceCount@ integer containing the total number of resources to be loaded. It can be used in conjunction with @loader.loadedCount@ to show progressbars etc.

h1. Gotchas / Warnings

* I have not implemented font loading yet, since the interface will probably change from LÖVE 0.7.x to 0.8.x.
* In order to use this lib, you must store the resources in "holder tables". If you *really* want to store them in separate global variables, I guess you could use @_G@:
<pre>
  -- will create a new global variable called rabbit when the image is loaded
  loader.newImage(  _G, 'rabbit', 'path/to/rabbit.png')
</pre>
If you do that I might come to your house and take your keyboard away. Use tables and local variables!

h1. Installation

Just copy the love-loader.lua file somewhere in your projects (maybe inside a /lib/ folder) and require it accordingly.

Remember to store the value returned by require somewhere! (I suggest a local variable named @loader@ or @love.loader@)

<pre>
local loader = require 'love-loader'
</pre>

The second step is making sure that your "game loop" calls @loader.update@, at least while there are resources to load.

h1. Credits

I took a lot of inspiration from Michael Enger's Stealth2D project. I learned the basic internals of threads from his loading state code.

https://github.com/michaelenger/Stealth2D



